Phase 1: Setup & Data Preparation
First, we need to organize the data from your resume so the AI can inject it into the code.

Step 1: Create the Next.js App Run this in your terminal:

Bash

npx create-next-app@latest portfolio --typescript --tailwind --eslint
cd portfolio
npm install framer-motion lucide-react clsx tailwind-merge
Step 2: The Master Prompt Use the following prompt to set up the data structure. I have extracted the specific details from your uploaded resume.

👉 Copy/Paste Prompt 1:

"I am building a modern, dark-themed developer portfolio using Next.js 14, Tailwind CSS, and Framer Motion.

First, create a file at app/data/portfolioData.ts to store my information. Please populate it with this exact data:

Personal Info:

Name: Tejas Upadhyay

Role: Full Stack Developer & Aspiring Software Engineer

Tagline: Building scalable web applications with Next.js and Node.js.

Resume Link: '/resume.pdf'

Socials: LinkedIn (use placeholder), GitHub (use placeholder), Email: tejasupadhyay48@gmail.com

Skills (categorize these):

Frontend: React.js, Next.js, HTML5, CSS3, ShadCN UI, Tailwind

Backend: Node.js, Express.js, RESTful APIs, JWT

Database: MongoDB, PostgreSQL, MySQL

Tools: Git, GitHub, Postman, Vercel

Projects:

Prepster: AI-Powered Interview Assistant. Tech: Next.js, ShadCN UI, Neon DB, Node.js. Description: A full-stack platform for interview prep with AI resume generation and quizzes.

Real-Time Crypto Tracker: Tech: React.js, Chart.js, CoinGecko API. Description: Live crypto dashboard with dynamic charting and real-time data.

Experience:

Backend Developer at IPS Academy (Jan 2024 - Mar 2024). Spearheaded full-stack development and optimized MongoDB schemas reducing latency by 25%.

Achievements:

Team Lead Smart India Hackathon (Top 18).

1st Runner-up Interdisciplinary Science Project Competition.

Please output the full TypeScript code for this data file."

Phase 2: The "Hero" & Navigation (First Impression)
We want a sticky navigation bar and a Hero section with a typewriter effect or fading animation.

👉 Copy/Paste Prompt 2:

"Now, let's build the Layout and Hero section.

Navbar: Create a floating, glass-morphism Navbar (blur effect) that is sticky at the top. It should have links: Home, Skills, Projects, Experience, Contact. Include a button on the right that says 'Download Resume' which links to /resume.pdf.

Hero Section: Create a component components/Hero.tsx.

Use Framer Motion to animate the text entering from the bottom.

Display: "Hi, I'm Tejas Upadhyay."

Subtitle: "I am a [Typewriter Effect Here] based in Indore, India." (The typewriter should cycle through: 'Full Stack Developer', 'Software Engineer', 'Tech Enthusiast').

Add two buttons: 'View My Work' (scrolls to projects) and 'Contact Me'.

Add a subtle moving background gradient or particle effect to make it look 'advanced'.

Ensure it is fully responsive for mobile devices."

Phase 3: The "Moving" Tech Stack (Marquee)
You requested "moving things." An infinite scrolling marquee is excellent for showing off skills.

👉 Copy/Paste Prompt 3:

"Create a components/Skills.tsx section.

Instead of a static list, I want an Infinite Horizontal Marquee animation (auto-scrolling left to right).

Create two rows of scrolling pills.

Row 1: Frontend & Tools (React, Next.js, Git, etc.).

Row 2: Backend & Databases (Node, Mongo, SQL, etc.).

When the user hovers over a skill pill, the animation should pause, and the pill should glow.

Use the data from portfolioData.ts."

Phase 4: Projects with Popups (Modals)
This addresses your specific request for a "popup in project that give detail."

👉 Copy/Paste Prompt 4:

"Create a components/Projects.tsx section.

Grid Layout: Display the projects (Prepster, Crypto Tracker) in a responsive grid.

Card Design: Each card should show the Project Title, a brief snippet, and the tech stack tags. Add a hover effect that scales the card slightly up.

The Modal (Popup): When a user clicks a project card, open a Framer Motion Modal (Popup) in the center of the screen with a backdrop blur.

Modal Content:

Project Title and full description.

Bullet points of key features (e.g., for Prepster: 'Integrated AI-based resume generation', 'ATS optimization').

Action Buttons: 'View on GitHub' and 'Live Demo' icons.

A distinct 'X' button to close the modal.

Ensure the modal logic handles onClick events correctly and locks the body scroll when open."

Phase 5: Experience & Contact
We will use a timeline for experience and a functional looking form for contact.

👉 Copy/Paste Prompt 5:

"Create the final two sections:

Experience: Create a components/Experience.tsx using a vertical timeline design.

Show my role at IPS Academy (Jan 2024 - Mar 2024).

Include the bullet points about optimizing MongoDB and reducing latency.

Animate the timeline items to fade in as the user scrolls down.

Contact & Footer: Create a components/Contact.tsx.

Simple form (Name, Email, Message). Note: Make the form UI only for now.

Display my email: tejasupadhyay48@gmail.com and phone: +91-8378922958.

Footer: Include a sleek footer with copyright and social icon links (LinkedIn, GitHub) that glow on hover.

Finally, assemble all these components into the main app/page.tsx."